did I just mangle this did this box have
a huge gash in it before I started good
thing the Box isn't the important part
this video is sponsored by TP link and
we're going to be looking at The Deco
be1 excuse me I mean The Deco
b63 I've been told it's this not this
but who cares it's a whole home Wi-Fi 7
mesh system that promises speeds of over
10 gigabit per second which not that
long ago I would have said TP Link you
can take your lies and take your money
and get out of here but Wi-Fi 7 is
freaking amazing to the point where I
actually believe that with this system
you could probably push 10 gbit per
second of networking through it let's
talk about that in a moment first let's
take a look at what's included in their
three pack of these you get three of
these little nodes and on the outside
we've got a WPS button for quick setup a
USB port so you can attach network
storage a power Inlet with including
power brick which you can't take for
granted these days folks and this is
pretty exciting to me okay yeah I'm
supposed to focus on the WiFi here but 2
and 1/2 gig networking across the board
every one of these has four 2.5 gig
ports so if you had something like a
high-powered home NZ or um multiple
people who want to be able to download
games at the maximum speed that their
state-of-the-art CPU allows this is
going to let them do it and what's cool
is that by having having this load out
on all of the nodes you're not limited
in terms of where you can have these
multiple fast machines that are
interacting with each other another
really cool technology that tplink
includes with The Deco 10,000 is the
ability to use either wired back haul
Wireless back haul or a combination of
wired and wireless back haul and when I
say back haul what I'm trying to say is
only one of these can be connected
directly to the internet let's say this
one that means that any device that's
connected via Wi-Fi to this guy say on
the second floor is going to have to
bounce between this unit to this unit to
get to the Internet so that can be done
over a wire over Wireless or through a
combination depending on what's
convenient for your install if it's only
Wi-Fi it can be pretty problematic
although on these I would be a lot less
worried about it because they have
got though on these I'd be a little less
worried about it because they've got
some pretty sick Wi-Fi let's get them
plugged in and then I'll show you what I
mean or rather let's connect one of our
Deco e63s to start while we go through
the quick installation guide oh by the
way the last thing included is this flat
ethernet cable indicator LED on the
bottom
unconventional okay now I get it you can
yeah okay you can kind of see it like I
was like really guys you can't see the
indicator okay fine I'll allow it the
main benefits of Wi-Fi 7 are that it's
faster lower latency and allows more
devices to be connected concurrently to
and achieves this in a number of ways
first of all it uses more sophisticated
4K QAM signaling it uses wider channels
up to
320 MHz on the 6 GHz band and oh by the
way it uses the new uncongested 6 GHz
band which does have some slight
drawbacks in terms of range but vastly
outperforms the 5 gz and especially 2.4
GHz BS the last thing that's really
important and this is supported by the
b63 though not all Wi-Fi 7 devices
necessarily work with it at least not
yet is support for mlo or multi-link
operation this allows it even ignoring
the wired connection to use 2.4 5 GHz
and 6 GHz at the same time to supported
devices for absolutely wild speeds now
as you can see administration of your
deco mesh system is done through the
Android or iOS app so let's go ahead and
get it set up
mhm
M
MH
sure
mhm interesting showing up yeah it's
just telling me hey do your thing you
know and I'm like doing my thing over
here and we're all happy connected
device yeah let's go connection
successful what more could you
want everyone wants a successful
connection that was I've got mine stop
ion she's not watching this she doesn't
need new Wi-Fi and if she did I'd take
care of it for her I have my flaws but I
I will take care of the Wi-Fi if it's
down
C SC set here we go done it's detecting
my internet connection type I'm going to
dial up
yo ethernet cable is not connected see
Sven told you Belle he told you it
wasn't connected let's try that again
shall we if you're unsure we did
advanced
settings oh that's cool you can just
turn ipv on like that it was a bit of a
hassle for um electr booms upgrade we
had to do some K jiggering in order to
get it working create your Wi-Fi
network this is a really bad password do
not use this look it even tells me it's
like yo you're an idiot but they said it
really politely oo 6 GHz automatic
updates oh wait oh I almost skipped it
yeah yeah yes automatic updates please
unable
to try again it's going to do it this no
it's going to do it this time it's going
to do it this
time it's going to do it this
time it's going to do it this time so
basically they lied to me by having no
internet in these tubes right here hey
My Deco is set up now that I have an
internet in my tubes all right all we
got to do is power up these other boys
well you know what maybe we'll do that
another time yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah
yeah yeah yeah yeah okay first I want to
see what kind of internet speed we can
get out of this one okay no no yeah that
that was that was just on The Deco okay
okay that freaked me out a little bit I
was like wow I mean Wi-Fi 7's really
fast but it's not that fast okay
cool that means our 2 and 1/2 gig Port
is working
good now let's test our Wi-Fi speed all
right now it's worth noting that we
could be limited by the speed of the
servers we connect to here but
theoretically if we were able to test
over the wire at 2.3 GB per second this
should be pretty fast oh
that's not really as fast as I that's a
little faster hello
850 megabit per second
upload uh okay that really that really
wasn't that fast am I missing something
here ah I wasn't missing something but
maybe our pixel 8 was when we turned on
mlo performance increased dramatically
and when we switched out to a OnePlus 12
it got even better and it's worth noting
that that's here in our office where
there's a lot of interference from our
regular AP so your results may be even
better than our own around 1 GB per
second up and down to a single client
and that is only a fraction of its power
I mean to get the most out of it you
want to have multiple clients connected
to it okay my daily driver phone
probably not going to move the needle
but hold on let's see okay this is where
you're going to get really even more
impressed because I bet these results
are going to be basically the same even
with two phones hitting it at the same
time okay so I'm going to let this one
start going I'm going to let it going
and then you're going to see that that
is not going to be impacted by this one
check this
out already with just two devices we're
sitting at aggregate of what like 1,200
megabit per second down and like
1,700 up that is freaking
crazy no one else seems impressed TP
link they're they're impressed they're
like good job lonus you demoed the
product yep that's what it does actually
it does more than that so let's go ahead
and connect a couple more of these units
here obviously this is not how I would
recommend setting up a mesh Network you
want to have these devices close enough
that they are able to wirelessly
interface with good signal strength to
your base unit and far enough that
you're going to get the benefit of
devices that are let's say connecting
from the second or third story of your
house being able to get a stronger
signal to to their closest Wi-Fi access
point now in an ideal scenario you would
actually where' I put that internet
cable what you would run wires between
your original
one and your satellite ones which would
mean that you've got all of your Wi-Fi
available for your devices but because
these things have so many bands and such
wide bands and they can use bands
concurrently it is far less of a concern
than it used to be the lower latency of
m is in my opinion the biggest deal
because most of the time I don't need to
upload something at 1.4 gigabit per
second from my cell phone that's not the
key benefit the key benefit is that if
there's any congestion it can actually
use one of the other bands to get that
packet through so when you're say for
example gaming you're going to get a
more consistent experience using Wi-Fi 7
of course you're going to need a Wi-Fi 7
enabled client
what else is there to talk about in here
they've got some convenience features
like the ability to set up a separate
Network for guests or iot devices uh
supports matter actually speaking of iot
devices parental control so you can
either manage that on a network level or
they have an app that you can install on
your kids phones what else are we
looking at in here all the usual stuff
qos port forwarding oh hey LED control
dude you can turn it off at
night hey I like that if I've got one of
these in my theater room or in my my
bedroom or something like that I want it
off at night I love that it's $600
regular price for this and we actually
have a $50 off coupon you can check that
out down below but if you don't live in
a three-story building or if you're a
you know small business or something
like that you could probably get by with
just one of these which I already showed
you guys is really flipping fast that's
going to cost you $210 and considering
you're getting Wi-Fi 7 you're getting
the app base setup and everything else
that we showed is a lot more palatable
and if you're living in honestly
apartment even a small detached house
you're probably going to get by with
that and then you can always go get one
more or another one more just don't get
too many we actually did a video
recently where we showed what happens if
you have too many Wi-Fi access points
it's really really bad thanks again to
TP for sponsoring this video subscribe
to Short Circuit